add doc for dynamic config (#2617)
pingcap/docs: dynamic-config.md

---
title: Dynamic Configuration Change
summary: Learn how to use dynamic configuration change.
category: reference
---

# Dynamic Configuration Change

This document describes how to use the dynamic configuration change feature.

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is experimental. It is **NOT** recommended to use this feature in the production environment.

The feature of dynamic configuration change is to online update the configuration of components (including TiKV and PD) using SQL statements.

> Dynamic configuration change cannot be used to update the TiDB configuration. If you want to change the behavior of TiDB, modify its corresponding SQL variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamic configuration change cannot be used to update the TiDB configuration. If you want to change the behavior of TiDB, modify TiDB's corresponding SQL variables.
```

## Common Operations

This section describes the common operations of dynamic configuration change.

### View instance configuration

To view the configuration of all instances in the cluster, use the `show config` SQL statement. The result is as follows:

> ```

Reviewer 2: You are right.

> ```

Author: Thanks! I'll fix it later.

> ```

Reviewer: @ran-huang Please remove `mysql` in this document.

| schedule.enable-remove-extra-replica | Determines whether to enable the feature that removes extra replicas |
| schedule.enable-location-replacement | Determines whether to enable isolation level check |
| schedule.enable-cross-table-merge | Determines whether to enable cross-table merge |
| schedule.enable-one-way-merge | Enables one-way merge, which only allows merging with the next adjacent Region |
| replication.max-replicas | Sets the maximum number of replicas |
| replication.location-labels | The topology information of a TiKV cluster |
| replication.enable-placement-rules | Enables placement rules |
| replication.strictly-match-label | Enables the label check |
| pd-server.use-region-storage | Enables independent Region storage |
| pd-server.max-gap-reset-ts | Sets the maximum interval of resetting timestamp (BR) |
| pd-server.key-type| Sets the cluster key type |
| pd-server.metric-storage | Sets the storage address of the cluster metrics |
| pd-server.dashboard-address | Sets the dashboard address |
| replication-mode.replication-mode | Sets the backup mode |

> For detailed parameter description, refer to [PD Configuration File](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/pd-configuration-file/).

Author: ```suggestion
For detailed parameter description, refer to [PD Configuration File](/pd-configuration-file.md).
```

| {db-name}.{cf-name}.level0-file-num-compaction-trigger | The maximum number of files at L0 that trigger compaction |
| {db-name}.{cf-name}.level0-slowdown-writes-trigger | The maximum number of files at L0 that trigger write stall |
| {db-name}.{cf-name}.level0-stop-writes-trigger | The maximum number of files at L0 required to completely block write |
| {db-name}.{cf-name}.max-compaction-bytes | The maximum number of bytes written into disk per compaction |
| {db-name}.{cf-name}.max-bytes-for-level-multiplier | The default amplification multiple for each layer |
| {db-name}.{cf-name}.disable-auto-compactions | Enables or disables automatic compaction |
| {db-name}.{cf-name}.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit | The soft limit on the pending compaction bytes |
| {db-name}.{cf-name}.hard-pending-compaction-bytes-limit | The hard limit on the pending compaction bytes |
| {db-name}.{cf-name}.titan.blob-run-mode | The mode of processing blob files |

In the table above, parameters with the `{db-name}` or `{db-name}.{cf-name}` prefix is configurations related to RocksDB. The value of `db-name` can be `rocksdb` or `raftdb`.

> - When `db-name` is `rocksdb`, the value of `cf-name` can be `defaultcf`, `writecf`, `lockcf`, and `raftcf`.

Reviewer 2: It's correct.
